Well, Confection Gale to collect quite a few of me for 20 percent.
That was around $300.
It must have been for about 60,000 words a copy.
One of the things I wanted to ask you about was you started off with a sort of fantasy science fiction story of Metal Man,
and then you went deeply into science fiction.
But one I think one of your most fascinating things that I read was darker than you think.
What caused the change in your writing? What caused this?
Well, I'm not sure except that people change and grow and sometimes decay and whatever.
When I wrote darker than you think, I was under psychoanalysis.
I was in Hollywood for the conclusion of it.
I first went to a Dr. Ted at the Menager Institute in Topeka and worked with him for about a year
and then broke off for a couple of years and decided I needed some more.
He'd moved to Beverly Hills in the meantime and I went out there and stayed another year.
The psychiatrist in the story, it's, well, reflects some of my attitudes to a Dr. Ted, I think.
It's probably unfair to him to say that, but it seems to me that looking back now at the story and what it tries to say,
the Will Barbé starts out in terror of the forces of darkness and in the end finds his part of them.
And that in a way is reflection of my own experience.
That is, I can remember a time when I felt that I was involved in a strong conflict between will and emotion
and I made resolutions that were difficult to keep and felt sort of divided against myself.
As a result of partly of the analysis and partly of just growing up in the living,
I feel that I've got to be well better integrated so that I'm not no longer so conscious of internal conflicts
of wanting to do things that I don't do, of attempting to make resolutions that I won't be able to keep
and so forth, I'm just having a degree of acceptance of myself, of the unconscious, of the whole human nature
and so forth that I didn't have and I think that's probably the basic emotional structure of the novel.
You weren't attempting then to, I mean, did you have any serious ideas about the Lecanthropy, the werewolf?
That was the reason for that kind of genetic inheritance?
Well, I think the Lecanthropy is an excellent or apt or whatever symbol for, let's say, the quote, dark forces of the unconscious.
And I didn't certainly have any serious belief in magic or Lecanthropy or whatever.
It was pure fantasy or science fiction but a fortunate invention because it was symbolic and expressive and so in its own way true.
To go forward a little bit, another book I wanted to ask you about is Brother to Demon, Brother to Gods,
more or less on genetic engineering and so forth.
I took that book as fairly optimistic in its ending.
I think it is. It was meant to be. I'm certainly interested in genetic engineering.
It seems to me that, well, the big scientific event of, well, 40 years ago or whenever it happened was the splitting of the atom
and the unraveling of DNA has some learned more profound consequences when we begin to realize them.
And years ago I wrote a novel in which, well, so far as I know that invented the term genetic engineering,
it had probably been around in other works called Dragon's Island.
But that was published in 51 which was a couple of years before Watson and Crick made their great breakthrough
and then more recently I decided to come back to it and to push the possibilities of genetic engineering as far as I could imagine them.
Would you accept it or, I mean, is it something you're for?
Well, I don't think it's a matter of being for it or not. I think it's going to happen.
I think that people are going to be opposed to it and there'll be conflicts and so forth,
but assuming that science and technology remain alive, I think genetic engineering is going forward.
It has so many possible uses in the manufacture of insulin, the manufacture of interferon,
the possibilities for, let's say, improving health and happiness and comfort and longevity are so vast
that you can't imagine people refusing to do it.
And if we go ahead with it, it involves the potential of improving or changing or tinkering with the human germ plasm,
rebelling the race itself.
And I say it's fascinating to watch and in the story, well, I set up the Smithwick family as the creators
and had them recreating their own children so they would be better genetic engineers generation after generation
and set up these four creations, the true man who were genetically perfect,
who were happy and smart and peaceful and good citizens of society
and the new man who were specialized for space or warfare or anything else.
And the gods who ruled and then discovering that the gods were created a little bit too much in the image of men
so that there needs to be another creation to supplant the gods and the gods naturally don't want to be supplanted
and it struck me that this was, let's say, a beautiful dramatic situation with the essence of conflict
and discovery and revelation where these two naked kids on the premon reservation faced with the problem
of keeping alive when the gods are after them to grow up and discover what they are
and make the ultimate man to replace the gods.
It was just fun to do, let's say.
And I wouldn't say that it's possible, but I wouldn't say it's impossible.
That is, I think that it is an imaginative exploration of what could happen.
Would you say in that book that man is sort of controlling his own evolution?
Well, it seems to me we can control our own evolution and that in a way is not very remarkable
because for many thousands of years we've been controlling the evolution of horses and cattle and dogs and so forth
so that obviously human evolution can be controlled and since we're discovering, let's say, decoding the genetic message
where we can do it more effectively and genetically, effectively, efficiently than it was ever done before.
What about, this isn't exactly the same kind of material, but it is in a way that story on Guinevere for everybody about cloning.
Is cloning something you can foresee as possible or good?
Well, I can't really say any good in it, not much good anyway, but it seems to me it's possible.
We can already clone frogs and with continual refinement and laboratory processes and understanding and so forth
I can see cloning human beings, but our human clone, as far as I can see, is essentially an identical twin
and not a sort of supernatural second self.
So assuming that you had clones, it seems to me that they would have to be grown up individually and educated individually
and they would not be doppelgangers or second selves or instant duplicates of the donor or whatever,
but I can't see why it shouldn't happen and it seems to me that there's a possibility of using the cloning technique
for example to grow a new heart that would be a perfect replacement of a normal heart
because it's grown out of the same texture and such things as this.
It might be possible to grow a whole series of implants and replacements that would make life go on almost essentially forever
as far as I know the brain cells are not replaceable and won't live forever, so I can't see that as a real way to immortality.
One more question on this particular point, say in reference to cloning or genetic engineering,
would you say that there is no area of science that man can monkey with anything he wants?
Is there anything which we shouldn't touch which would be wrong for science to meddle with or monkey with?
Well, I suppose I'm a sort of a relativist.
Maybe I'm a Darwinian evolutionist.
It's hard to find any absolute symbols or standards or whatever, what is wrong and right.
If you look at the whole evolutionary picture, why some things, patterns of growth and ways of behavior and so forth
lead to the survival of the individual and the species and some don't.
That's one available standard of behavior and if you look at that, why the technologies seem likely to survive and prevail
unless they destroy themselves and whatever is going to destroy the race is obviously bad in that way.
Then it seems to me when we open the atom, we're skating on thin ice and there might be similar hazards in genetic engineering
that theoretically we could design a form of life that would wipe us out.
Maybe we will.
Maybe we need the humanoids to keep us from doing that.
That's what they're for.
But personally, being sort of individualist, I hate to give up completely the humanoids.
There is one more work I keep forgetting about this one, the CT work, CT ship, CT shock.
Is that the way that's pronounced?
CT, yeah.
Contraterine, man.
Yes, it was abbreviated, contra-terine with the letters C and T and I just spelled it out.
That was a work I did for Kamal and enjoyed doing it.
I went to him with the idea for a series of stories about the planetary engineers who would terraform new worlds,
that is, would rebuild them, tinker with the atmosphere, the chemistry, maybe the gravitation, whatever,
to make them suitable for human settlement.
Kamal suggested that some of these new worlds might be CT, that is, antimatter,
which was pretty near the science fiction then and I was fascinated and I did a series of stories
and then a serial that eventually became two novels.
Where did you come up with the concept terraform?
Did you coin that word?
As far as I know, I invented the word.
There are a few such terms that I think I can claim credit for such as terraforming and psionics
and the android is distinct from the Robert and so forth.
Didn't the CT novel and the short stories lead into a syndicated strip in the newspapers?
Yeah, that was one of my exciting adventures.
I was sitting at my desk one day when the phone rang and the editor of the New York Sunday News was on the line
and wanted to know if I would come to New York and write a comic strip
and I caught my breath and said I would and they had read one of the CT novels reviewed in the New York Times
by a rather superior reviewer who said that the plot was pretty interesting
but the way of writing made it look like a science fiction comic strip
and this was in the early days of commercial TV when people were turning on the tube on Sunday morning
instead of buying the Sunday news and somebody thought that if they had exclusive strips
instead of syndicated strips that everybody else had it might give them a competitive edge.
They originally planned four new comics including a Western and a Mystery and Adventure I think
but the science fiction one was the only one they did.
It ran for three years but eventually didn't turn out to be the answer to TV.
But the artist was Leah Lass who used to work with Milk and Ifon Terry and the Pirates
and has a nice clean cut style and was good with new and strange characters and good with machines
and the thing was fun to do. My heart was broken when it ended because I had come to enjoy getting a regular check
and it was at that time that I went back part time into the academic world
because I had started taking college courses while the strip was running
because it didn't take all my time to write it and I asked for a graduate assistantship and math
and they didn't have one but I was stared to one in English which turned out to be a fortunate choice
and the academic world did mesh very well with writing.
It's wonderful to be paid to read Good Literature and talk about it with a congenial group of students
and I enjoyed teaching and found that I was able to continue writing during holidays and vacations
and maybe I learned a little bit more about literature and about people and so forth.
I think it was a very happy experience.
Didn't you also put together one of the first courses on science fiction?
I think so. Mark Heligus at Colgate University wrote the first one that I knew about.
That was written up in the National Observer and I took the article out and showed it to the curriculum committee
and my chairman at Eastern and got approval for a course.
What time was that?
That was in, let's see, Heligus started his course in 62 and I started mine in 64 and taught it for a dozen years
and spent part of those years doing all I could to promote academic science fiction elsewhere
and accumulated descriptions of other courses and lectured and published articles
and finally put together a textbook for science fiction teachers and anthology of articles
by the likes of Asimov and Gwyn and Garn and others that has finally been published.
I have a question about your own opinion on it. This may not be a fair question to ask of an author, but
do you have favorite books, favorite stories, characters as you look back that you would say like most to be remembered for?
Me in my own work?
Yeah, in your own.
Well, I think darker than you think is probably the novel that, as I fell into place most pleasingly,
when I look back on it, it seems still to work, it's still engaging, it still means something.
The humanoid has been my most successful, most widely translated novel,
but the original novelette with folded hands said essentially what I wanted to say in a more compact and satisfying way
so that I always felt the novelette was a better story than the novel.
That in a way has been my most successful and popular work, the novelette has been reprinted many, many times.
How many languages has the humanoid been translated into, you know?
Well, I don't know, but most of the Western European languages and Japan and let's see, it's just going into Serbo-Croatian and Hebrew.
It's gotten around.
I want to ask something about your working method.
When you come up with a concept for a story, you know, whatever it is, you know, CT or humanoid's whatever,
do you get a concept and then find a story to fit it or do you have a story that you shove the concept into?
Well, I'd like to say I think that it just grows.
I often begin with some sort of abstract idea, like, well, the conflict of primitivism and progress or whatever.
And I look for the essence of conflict and the basic idea and then try to find characters or forces that would embody this conflict.
And in the early stages of it, why the whole thing is a very flexible, almost flimsy.
You can do anything to it. You want to turn it inside out.
But if it works, it gradually comes alive and the characters become real until they're human beings that I feel that I know.
And it sort of changes what comes very difficult to make.
I noticed looking over some of your manuscripts at Eastern New Mexico University that you do revise.
It seems to me that you had revised quite a bit.
Is that a normal process of your writing to go back over?
Well, more and more.
In the beginning, I saw myself as a pop writer.
And my idols in the pop field were such figures as Max Brand, who was said to write 4,000 words every day,
including Sundays, and send it out in rough draft.
And in the course of his life, he's said to have published between 30 and 40 million words.
And I tried to do that for years and sometimes, believe it or not, it worked.
Most of my work for several years was submitted in first draft and often accepted and liked by the fans.
But as time goes on, I change. The market changes.
I become, I guess, more conscious of technique and ways that things can go wrong.
So nowadays, when I write a paragraph, I have a tendency to take it apart and rewrite it instead of going on.
Which was one reason for buying this new word processor, because it seems to facilitate the revision immensely.
You compose on a monitor, and if you don't like what you see there,
you can over-type it or delete it or whatever and save whatever's good without having to re-type it.
How do you keep up with science? You must have a fairly extensive scientific background or any good science fiction writer must.
Well, I've always been, as I said, fascinated with science as a sort of unfolding mystery.
That is, I want to know as much as I can about the nature of the origins of the universe.
I subscribe to a whole group of magazines, Science News, the Scientific American Science,
which is the publication of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
which is much of it pretty technical, but some things in it I can read and understand.
I subscribe to a couple of astronomy magazines.
I've subscribed to a couple of computer magazines since I bought the word processor.
And occasionally I get off to other events.
My wife and I attended the Jupiter flyby at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory March a year ago,
and got a short story out of that that I called a descent into the great red spot, though I think the editor is changing the name of it.
And we've been invited back to the southern flyby come November and something like that,
which gives you an opportunity to see actual science at work and science unfolding,
it's about as exciting as anything could be.
The Jupiter flyby, the pictures of Jupiter and its satellites were coming in on the monitors, one every 48 seconds.
Most of them you knew would never be seen again.
They would select some for more study, but most of them would disappear.
And it was just exciting.
It was like exploring a new solar system.
These satellites up to that time had just been spots of light in the telescope
at the nearest best approaches where you could see details just a few kilometers across.
Each satellite was different, with a different history, with different clues about the origins of itself and the whole solar system and maybe the universe.
Things like that might make science as interesting as anything I know.
To change the subject again, if I remember now, you have been president of the Science Fiction Writers Association, are you still on?
I finished my second term less than a month ago and I hope now to get back to more science fiction.
The term is for how long?
It's term is only for one year.
And it was a very rewarding experience.
As I guess I've said before, Science Fiction is a pretty small, friendly, close community.
A lot of people in it have been good friends over the years and it was an opportunity to try to do something for Science Fiction.
But it took a good deal of time.
What were your duties, if you don't mind me thinking about it?
Well, there we have about 500 members.
We have all sorts of activities.
One of the most important is a grievance committee that tries to, let's say, avoid difficulties with editors and publishers and so forth to make sure that they treat us right.
We have the Nubular Awards that are given each year to recognize work in the field.
We attempt to, well, sort of publicize and propagandize Science Fiction.
And there are many, many people in the organization who devote a lot of priceless time and energy to this,
but the whole thing has to be coordinated and people drop out and have to be replaced.
And misunderstandings develop that have to be somehow explained and new projects come along that need to be supported.
There wasn't any one thing that took a great deal of time, but there was a continual flow of problems and minor decisions and so forth.
So that every week I'd have to spend maybe a couple of days catching up on the mail and the phone calls and whatever.
What are the criteria for membership?
Does everybody automatically a member who publishes a story or does it have to make application?
No, you have to make application.
An affiliate member has to have at least one story professionally published.
An active member, the requirement for that is three stories, short stories or short works that doesn't have to be fiction stories,
or longer works such as a novel or whatever.
The deal is now of $40 a year and we have two publications,
between them they're monthly, a forum that is essentially for the members with official business and market reports and whatever.
And a bulletin that comes out four times a year that is devoted to more general articles, background, material on science and science fiction.
And the members are usually privileged to attend a self-wised week at a convention.
And let's say membership is a sort of ticket to a club that I regard as exciting to belong to.
You said there are some 500 members?
Yes.
That must be the largest, obviously the largest it's ever been.
Oh yes, it is still growing steadily.
The science fiction market is well until the last year or so was booming.
People back publishers had regular plans to publish four, six, sometimes eight titles a month.
So that Charlie Brown of Locust was keeping a record of the books published and that kept growing until the total passed a thousand a year,
about half reprint and half new, including fantasy as well as science fiction.
And I think that, well since the depression or whatever it was where many publishers have cut back their schedules and it's a little harder for a new writer to break in than it was,
but it's still very profitable and exciting field compared to what it was.
When there was one magazine I got 25 bucks for my first story and of course the big money is from films and TV and such things.
I know you said it's hard for you to keep up with everything that's being published today,
but do you have any particularly favorite authors, the younger ones starting in the last ten years or so that you think are going to be valuable?
Well, I don't follow well enough to say anything very intelligent.
When I was teaching I regarded Ursula Le Guin's left hand of darkness as probably the best recent novel and I'm a great admirer of Heinlein,
especially the early Heinlein Arthur Clark, but I don't really keep up.
I just read and re-read some of Gordon Dixon's Child Cycle and impressed with a broad optimistic view of human change and evolution that he's presenting.
What about new wave authors? I guess the new wave technically has passed.
What was your response to that?
I felt that the new wave was, well, I had a new wave because I felt that the new wave people were, first of all they were intensely pessimistic about science
and they were trying to throw out the traditional accepted literary patterns that at least were accepted by me and used in the field
and turning back to literary experiments by people like Dose Pisces and James Joyce that had been tried a generation ago and were brought on as they were something new again.
But I think by and large, well let's say some of the new wave writers were very able and the impact of the new wave has been to improve the well-awareness of literary values of style and so forth.
So by and large it's been a good thing.
Is it possible to blend, say, the mainstream or the new wave attempt with good science fiction? Are they mutually exclusive or is it possible to have good mainstream material at science fiction?
Well, I'm not enthusiastic about consolidating mainstream literature and science fiction, but I also remember that there was a time when science fiction wasn't walled off in a category by itself
and I don't think there's any reason it should be. When Wells was publishing his stories, they were just novels or romances or whatever and the science fiction was in a sort of ghetto, quote, ghetto for a generation.
I think this was partly due to the fact that he was published in pulp magazines and people looked down on the pulps. I think we're sort of getting over that, but it's still a category, a publisher's category, like westerns or gothics or love romances or whatever.
And that means that if Don Wilhelm or Judy Lynn Del Ray or someone else packages a book in a recognizable science fiction package, it'll sell enough copies to make a profit, but it's a limited profit because it is shelved in the science fiction racks and the stands and the general public doesn't see it.
So people who get to be best sellers, successful, people like Viny Gutt and so forth, tend to want to get the science fiction label off their stories when they begin to sell enough copies, but I've never reached that stage myself.
I'm proud to have mine called science fiction.
Well, you mentioned the general public. Probably the general public wouldn't be included as say fans of science fiction. Is science fiction always going to be a separate thing? Is it still separate where you have to be a member almost of a cult or an in-group to a...
Well, let's say some science fiction is, I think one thing, the most important thing that's happened to the field is the diversification of it. Instead of having one readership, we have many readerships and there's, let's say, a limited group that are interested in, let's say, the possibilities of hard science in a serious look at science fiction to explore possibilities
of future social evolution, cultural change, the psychological impact of new technologies or whatever. And there are more people who are interested in characterization and story value and maybe literature has escaped.
So I think that we won't just have one science fiction, but many varieties of it, but it seems to me that as far as I can see ahead, there should be a public far quote science fiction just as there still is for westerns or mischies or other identifiable categories.
You don't see a more, say comparing it, you're uniquely qualified to do this. Say comparing the readership of science fiction today with, say, back in the 30s or early 40s. Wouldn't you say a greater proportion of the population reads and appreciates science fiction?
I think so. When I started, nobody knew what it was. You had to explain it. There was one science fiction magazine, though some science fiction stories were running in magazines like Galaxin. People like Wells and Conan Doyle had been publishing occasional science fiction, not for a specialized audience, all along.
But certainly there are more people reading it now than there ever were before. But there are a lot more people who see it on TV or see science fiction movies than ever read any of it.
When you go to a convention these days, where the Star Trek fans and the comic book fans and the Star Wars fans and so forth, sort of outnumber the science fiction fans. A couple of weeks ago I was at a convention in Phoenix that was attended by, I think, about 800 people.
I was really the only identifiable hard science fiction writer there. There were Star Wars characters and there were comic books authors and so forth who had the big public. I'm no complaint about that.
You don't think that hurts the kind of science fiction that you value more? Say the movies, the television, that kind of material?
Well, movies have very seldom been good science fiction. There have been a few good science fiction films, but the science fiction or the sort I like has been called a literature of ideas and to some extent it is.
And the films, I think, necessarily deal not in ideas but with emotions, with sensation. I just saw The Shining and I liked it as a superb piece of filmic craftsmanship.
I think that Kubrick wanted to scare the socks off the audience and by and large he did about as well as anybody ever will. There are people who feel that he neglected characterization and feel that the explanation of the supernatural is not consistent, but I feel that Kubrick knew what he was doing and he did it.
Considering consistency, it seems to me that he was making a deliberate appeal to the irrational, to the inexplicable, to the totally mysterious. If he tried to explain all the ghosts in the old hotel where he would have been letting down the suspense at the same time, I love it.
Do you think there have been any successful science fiction movies?
Well, 2001 I think was tremendous. There are a number of others that are regarded as classics, but typically the movies and TV haven't done what might have been done.
In the first year or two of Star Trek they were buying professionally published science fiction stories or stories written by professional writers and I thought many of them were pretty good.
Gradually as time went on they went more and more into the standard Hollywood format and had less and less originality, creativity and so forth.
Space, 1999 and Battlestar Galactica are worse. They have plenty of money for all sorts of expensive, special effects, but they have a contempt for the intelligence of the audience.
They don't care about ideas, about consistency or whatever. All they're trying to do is create an emotional effect that if you know too much science or care too much about believability, why the emotional effect doesn't work.
I'm about to ask a very broad question so you can feel free to edit it down to a better size. What do you think goes into making a good science fiction story?
Well, of course I'm something I'll believe in myself in emotional effects. That is you need a strong conflict and you need something that will involve the reader emotionally so that you need characters that he can either hate or identify with.
You need some sense of originality. You need, if you get it, something new, though that isn't always possible.
I tend myself to look for a theme for some sort of significant statement about science or the future or the impact of science and technology on individual human beings, on human life, on society, on what the world might be.
I think all of it is important for the writer to be genuinely interested in what he is saying about something relevant to science and technology and change.
It seems to me the essential thing is probably that science fiction recognizes that the world is changing under the impact of technology. The future is going to be different and the mainstream audience either doesn't know this or prefers to forget it or whatever.
That's a good distinction to make. I was going to ask you, is that something you presented in your classes when you taught science fiction that it's concerned with change and distinction of mainstream material?
Speaking of your teaching, why do you think science fiction, say, is far down as junior high, junior high, high school, college? Is there any particular value it can offer students?
Well, I think that, assuming that science fiction does deal with change, the world is really changing. So the recognition of this is an element of reality or realism that you don't have in a lot of classic literature.
And kids growing up were going to be living in a world that's different from the world around them now. It seems to me they have a legitimate interest in what the future is going to be.
And in a practical teaching situation, you're trying to pull kids off the playground out of the front of the TV and teach them to read and to understand and to think.
And sometimes this is pretty difficult. I've tried various approaches to various literary figures and periods, and some of them work very well and some of them don't.
And it seems to me that science fiction offers a sort of bridge or a door or whatever to the interest of a lot of students that you don't have if you try to go back to Shakespeare, let's say.
Yeah, I think one thing science fiction forces a person who's reading it to do is to think about the future and to think about the world that he's living in as it's related to the future.
I think that's basically what it's about really, as much as you can say this about anything.
A human being is a helpless victim of his environment and his own nature or that he can make significant decisions and change his environment and make things better than they were.
That was basically the approach I took in my classes, beginning, I like to begin with the second two books of Gallivish Progress, which is written as deliberate criticism of the early scientists of the Royal Society and so forth.
And to present as far as I could, selected stories that would be brief on both sides, dystopias and jute-topias, optimism and pessimism, selection from such people as Well-Clarke and Heinlein and so forth on one side and made my own humanoid.
There's plenty of dystopian fiction, usually better written and more engaging than the optimistic science fiction.
Well, though, if you're going to categorize like that, say you put Welles and Huxley and Swift, maybe Ellison on the one hand, maybe Heinlein, Asimov, people like that on the other, I would put you on that side.
The second side was the optimist or the utopians, ultimately, even though you did write the humanoid.
Well, that's where I'd like to be.
That's fair.
Hey, but I only got one more question I'm done.
The tape's brought out too.
Maybe I misinterpreted some of the you wrote, Dr. Williamson, but I thought I read somewhere where you were skeptical of the possibility of finding intelligent alien life elsewhere.
No, I don't think I read.
Well, I'm skeptical about our actually finding it because the universe is so vast and communication is so difficult.
There's two chains of probability or whatever.
It's been proven that the stuff of life originates elsewhere, even in galactic clouds before there are any planets.
So the stuff of life is there and life could theoretically develop on any planet.
According to the best theories, where the galaxy is full of planets, so it ought to be there.
But on the other hand, we have a record of evolution for four and a half billion years or whatever in the solar system,
and there's no evidence that anything alien ever turned up here.
And at our best speed so far, it would take many thousand years to get to another world.
And I'm just skeptical that the flying saucers are interplanetary visitors of whatever.
But I can see a possibility of radio communication or picking up radio signals or laser signals or something else.
But it also seems that this would have to go at the speed of light, which takes 100,000 years to cross the galaxy.
So any very intimate conversation would take a lot of time.
Well, you've invented a couple ways for people to go faster than I have, haven't you?
Yes.
A very fond of Jerry Feinberg for the invention of the taekyeon that I've adopted.
And I've invented other devices of my own, and I regard these as necessary for, let's say, pieces of fictional machinery.
But I'm not sure they're going to work in reality.
People keep saying that the Einstein speed of light limit is not absolute, but there's a good deal to be said for it in practical terms.
But to summarize, in other words, you wouldn't...
You're not skeptical about the existence or the possibility of intelligent light, just that we would be able to contact it.
Right, that's it.
I don't see why it shouldn't be there.
Of course, there's a sort of appalling possibility that an evolving species opens up the atom and commits instantaneous suicide,
but you can hope that wouldn't always happen.